doc: Implements v2 and v3 MongoDB Atlas cluster migration examples (#3050)
mongodb/terraform-provider-mongodbatlas: examples/migrate_cluster_to_advanced_cluster/module_maintainer/README.md

# Module Maintainer - `mongodbatlas_cluster` to `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster`

The purpose of this example is to demonstrate how a Terraform module can help in the migration from `mongodbatlas_cluster` to `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster`.
The example contains three module versions which represent the three steps of the migration:

<!-- Update Variable count -->
Step | Purpose | Variables | Resources
--- | --- | --- | ---

> [Step 1](./v1) | Baseline | 5 | `mongodbatlas_cluster`

Reviewer: if we renamed folders too?

Author: I think it would look a bit strange: `step1/` and upgrading from `step1/` to `step2/` (in addition to all the reference changes 😅)

[Step 2](./v2) | Migrate to advanced_cluster with no change in variables or plan | 5 | `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster`

> [Step 3](./v3) | Use the latest features of advanced_cluster | 10 | `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster`

Reviewer 2: nit: should we add a small README in each vx folder or it's redundant?

Author: Could be worth it to generate normal module documentation when all descriptions are updated. But seems a bit overkill to me

The rest of this document summarizes the different implementations:
- [Step 1: `v1` Implementation Summary](#step-1-v1-implementation-summary)
  - [`variables.tf`](#variablestf)
  - [`main.tf`](#maintf)
  - [`outputs.tf`](#outputstf)
- [Step 2: `v2` Implementation Changes and Highlights](#step-2-v2-implementation-changes-and-highlights)
  - [`variables.tf` unchanged from `v1`](#variablestf-unchanged-from-v1)
  - [`versions.tf`](#versionstf)
  - [`main.tf`](#maintf-1)
  - [`outputs.tf`](#outputstf-1)
- [Step 3: `v3` Implementation Changes and Highlights](#step-3-v3-implementation-changes-and-highlights)
  - [`variables.tf`](#variablestf-1)
  - [`main.tf`](#maintf-2)
  - [`outputs.tf`](#outputstf-2)

> ## Step 1: `v1` Implementation Summary

Reviewer: even the vX occurrences like this

Reviewer: oh but I think here you are referring to the module version.. maybe add a "Module v1" in the title?

Author: Changed in e199021a3aec4b4c94862fe8e038ceb90334389d

This module creates a `mongodbatlas_cluster`

### [`variables.tf`](v1/variables.tf)
An abstraction for the `mongodbatlas_cluster` resource:

> - Not all arguments are exposed, but the arguments follows the schema closely

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Not all arguments are exposed, but the arguments follow the schema closely
```

# Module Maintainer - `mongodbatlas_cluster` to `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster`

> 

Reviewer 2: I guess the module will fail if somebody tries to use it directly in v2, is that correct? (because cluster doesnt' exist), should we say something so customers can take this into account in their own guides to their users?

if they use v3 directly, will it work or same problem?

Author: No, it will work. The `moved` block will simply be ignored

Reviewer 2: nice, thanks for the clarification, should we say it?

Author: Done in [dcbfbd6](https://github.com/mongodb/terraform-provider-mongodbatlas/pull/3050/commits/dcbfbd6fe016c9df5e585878f316adfa9dc13748)

The purpose of this example is to demonstrate how a Terraform module can help in the migration from `mongodbatlas_cluster` to `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster`.
The example contains three module versions which represent the three steps of the migration:

<!-- Update Variable count -->

> Step | Purpose | Variables | Resources

Reviewer 2: nit: to put in context the "Variables" column, what about changing it to "Complexity (Variables)" if title can use 2 lines, else title Complexity and rows "5 vars", ... "10 vars"

Author: Removed variables

Version | Purpose | Variables | Resources
Step | Purpose | Variables | Resources
--- | --- | --- | ---
[v1](./v1) | Baseline | 5 | `mongodbatlas_cluster`

> [v2](./v2) | Migrate to advanced_cluster with no change in variables or plan | 5 | `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster`

Reviewer 2: nit: the table is a bit long because the sentence: "Migrate to advanced_cluster with no change in variables or plan", can it be wrapped to use 2 lines?

[link](https://github.com/mongodb/terraform-provider-mongodbatlas/tree/CLOUDP-299312_demos_cluster_mig_modules_v2/examples/migrate_cluster_to_advanced_cluster/module_maintainer)

Author: I think it is ok. Try to resize the window and you'll see how it uses multiple lines

  - [`outputs.tf`](#outputstf-1)
- [Step 3: Module `v3` Implementation Changes and Highlights](#step-3-module-v3-implementation-changes-and-highlights)
  - [`variables.tf`](#variablestf-1)
  - [`main.tf`](#maintf-2)
  - [`outputs.tf`](#outputstf-2)

## Step 1: Module `v1` Implementation Summary
This module creates a `mongodbatlas_cluster`

### [`variables.tf`](v1/variables.tf)
An abstraction for the `mongodbatlas_cluster` resource:
- Not all arguments are exposed, but the arguments follow the schema closely
- `disk_size` and `auto_scaling_disk_gb_enabled` are mutually exclusive and validated in the `precondition` in `main.tf`

### [`main.tf`](v1/main.tf)
It uses `dynamic` blocks to represent:
- `tags`
- `replication_specs`
- `regions_config` (nested inside replication_specs)

### [`outputs.tf`](v1/outputs.tf)
- Expose some attributes of `mongodbatlas_cluster` but also the full resource with `mongodbatlas_cluster` output variable:
```terraform
output "mongodbatlas_cluster" {
  value       = mongodbatlas_cluster.this
  description = "Full cluster configuration for mongodbatlas_cluster resource"
}
```

## Step 2: Module `v2` Implementation Changes and Highlights

> This module use hcl code to create a `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster` compatible with the input variables of `v1`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This module uses HCL code to create a `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster` resource that is compatible with the input variables of `v1`.
```

Author: Thanks

> [v2](./v2) | Migrate to advanced_cluster with no change in variables or plan | 5 | `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster`

Reviewer: @EspenAlbert @lantoli unrelated to this PR, but as we are using vX in so many places, could we call these sections with a different name? Perhaps just "Step 1, Step 2, ..."?

Author: Updated partially in 12265f3b3781cfc7254bba43dc40fb1a3f830ae1
However, I prefer talking about module versions as `v1`, `v2`, etc. rather than Step 1, Step 2.

Author: Another update in d5a9be779e971958bad994a52262c2c3811e1d64
WDYT?

[v3](./v3) | Use the latest features of advanced_cluster | 10 | `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster`

> 

Author: Which approach for documentation do you like better 1 or 2?
- An alternative is to add comments inline
- Alternative 2 is harder to maintain as it is more copy-paste and need custom html tag formatting to work inside of the table

Reviewer 2: looking at the page [here](https://github.com/mongodb/terraform-provider-mongodbatlas/tree/CLOUDP-299312_demos_cluster_mig_modules_v2/examples/migrate_cluster_to_advanced_cluster/module_maintainer) I think I like better alt. 1 with sections as all changes for a file are grouped together.

Table idea is not bad, but I think it's a bit confusing to have multiple changes to a file in different rows. Also table source md is very hard to read.

which alt do you prefer?

Author: quick tip: Use rich diff to see rendering
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9e43244b-0179-4615-8742-346121ba2e19)

For me, I have a slight preference for alt.1. It is simpler to write. But I wonder if alt.2 is easier for users to read. What I like about alt.2 is the combination of quick summary (`Highlights` col) and the full details (`Code` col)

Reviewer: considering the README.md is a descriptive source and then customer can look at the source code I would opt for alt. 1

Author: Changed to approach 1 in 12265f3b3781cfc7254bba43dc40fb1a3f830ae1

> ## `v2` Implementation Changes and Highlights

Author: Approach 1 for documenting changes using header sections

> ### `variables.tf` unchanged from `v1`

Reviewer 2: maybe we can add a section with some screenshots explaining the process, like showing the plan with moved when starting using v2

Author: Hmm. I haven't seen many screenshots in our repo before. But probably useful in the `module_user` Readme file to show *expected plan*

Reviewer 2: that's fine

### `versions.tf`
- `required_version` of Terraform CLI bumped to `# todo: minimum moved block supported version` for `moved` block support
- `mongodbatlas.version` bumped to `# todo: PLACEHOLDER_TPF_RELEASE` for new `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster` v2 schema support

### `main.tf`
<!-- TODO: Update link to (schema v2) docs page -->

> - `locals.replication_specs` an intermediate variable transforming the `variables` to a compatible [replication_specs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/mongodb/mongodbatlas/latest/docs/resources/advanced_cluster#replication_specs-1) for `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster`

Reviewer: is it possible to link it to the example file (which in this case should be `examples/migrate_cluster_to_advanced_cluster/module_maintainer/v2/main.tf`)? 

I guess it'd need to be done in a follow-up PR

Author: Good idea! Done in 12265f3b3781cfc7254bba43dc40fb1a3f830ae1

  - We use the Terraform builtin [range](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/functions/range) function (`range(old_spec.num_shards)`) to flatten `num_shards`
  - We expand `read_only_specs` and `electable_specs` into nested attributes
  - We use the `var.provider_name` in the `region_configs.*.instance_size`
- `moved` block:
```terraform
moved {
  from = mongodbatlas_cluster.this
  to   = mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster.this
}
```
- `resource "mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster" "this"`
  - We reference the `local.replication_specs` as input to `replication_specs` (`replication_specs = local.replication_specs`)
  - Tags can be passed directly instead of the dynamic block (`tags = var.tags`)
- Adds `data "mongodbatlas_cluster" "this"` to avoid breaking changes in `outputs.tf` (see below)

### `outputs.tf`
- All outputs can use `mongodbatlas_advanced_cluster` except for
  - `replication_specs`, we use the `data.mongodbatlas_cluster.this.replication_specs` to keep the same format
  - `mongodbatlas_cluster`, we use the `data.mongodbatlas_cluster.this` to keep the same format

> ## `v3` Implementation Changes and Highlights

Author: Approach 2 for documenting changes using a table
